---
path: "/blogs/07-27-2020-feeling-appreciated"
draft: false 
title: "Feeling Appreciated At Work"
date: "2020-07-27"
---

As we were working towards launching a new project at my last job, my scrum master asked me to come see her at her desk. When I got there, she handed me a gift card and thanked me for my hard work. I was truly touched by this moment, and I very much appreciated that not only did she value my contribution, but that she chose to show her appreciation in a tangible way.

Fast forward two years to today. There are many things I love about my current company, but one of the things I don't love is that I'm rarely made to feel that my work is appreciated. I had a brief discussion with my manager about this last week (although that conversation was more focused on feedback than tangible signs of appreciation), and since that conversation, I've been trying to think about the ways in which I wish my teammates and my company would show their appreciation for my work.

One of the easiest ways that I've found to show appreciation to a teammate is by **privately saying thank you or good work**. During the course of my time at my current job, this is the form of appreciation I've received the most - a private slack message saying "good job" or "thank you for doing this". It may not seem like much, and it's probably not the first thing people think to do (I'm certainly guilty of not saying thank you enough), but reaching out to a teammate to tell them that you appreciate them is the easiest way to help someone feel welcome and appreciated.

Another way to show appreciation, and one that I have used in the past, is **publicly saying thank you or giving praise**. At my last job, after a new coworker successfully submitted his first pull request, I got up at our next developer meeting and publicly congratulated him in front of the team. When you acknowledge someone's work privately, you and the person you are acknowledging know how you feel, but the rest of the team may not know that this person is contributing in a valuable way. When you publicly acknowledge someone's work, not only are you telling them that they're doing good work, but you're telling the entire audience (which may be just your team, your department, or the entire company) that this person is a strong contributor to the team and people should be feel comfortable giving them additional work or asking them for help.

A great way to show appreciation in a tangible way is by giving the person a small **gift**. While this isn't an option in all situations (and certainly should not be done if it is against company policy or creates a legal or tax complication), a gift can be a tangible way of showing gratitude and, depending on the gift, it can be a great long-term reminder for the recipient that their contributions are valued by the team. Words have meaning and can be very powerful, but actions can be even more powerful sometimes, and this is an action that can contribute greatly to helping people feel appreciated at work.

In my opinion, the best way to show someone that you appreciate the work they've done for you and want them to continue doing good work is a **salary increase** or **promotion**. Some companies (including my current company) have salary discussions and promotion discussions on a set schedule, and at those companies, salary increases and promotions tend to be more of an acknowledgment of overall contributions and not work on a particular project or in a particular area. But at companies where there's no set time for salary increases and promotions can happen at any time, a promotion or salary bump can be a great way to acknowledge someone who made significant contributions to a major project. This is often the most permanent way of thanking someone, but it's also the one that requires the most thought and is not always the most appropriate answer. While salary increases are always appreciated (I certainly appreciate them), this is not a reward that should be taken lightly and should be reserved for either extraordinary work or an accumulation of a lot of good work. Salary increases are also something that doesn't have to be a reward for good work - if a company has a policy to increase salary automatically after a certain amount of time, that salary increase should not be seen as a reward for good work and work should still be acknowledged in another way.

As someone who takes a while to feel comfortable at a new job, knowing that my work and my contributions are valued makes me feel welcome and helps shorten that initial period of discomfort. There are many ways to show appreciation at work (some of which are mentioned above), but what matters most is that you do something. Show appreciation to your teammates, your managers, and your direct reports. Sometimes at work we take for granted the fact that a coworker will do their job well, but it's still always nice to point out that good work when you see it and to reinforce rewards for good work and helping the company.