---
path: "/blogs/01-13-2020-bad-day-recovery"
draft: false 
title: "Acute Recovery From A Bad Day"
date: "2020-01-13"
---

Most days, I love my job. I work for a great company, my teammates are extremely smart and very kind, and I'm doing work I enjoy. But some days I still feel out of place and like I don't belong. Whether it's because of a slow work day, or a difficult interaction, or just not accomplishing the things I wanted to accomplish, some days I leave work feeling like I would have been better off not having gone in at all. Like in everything else, sometimes at work I have bad days.

One day recently I had what I would consider a pretty bad day at work. When I got home, I decided that I wanted to write about how I was feeling. This is what I wrote:

_I had a bad day at work. I got there and had nothing to do, so I typed up my notes from my meeting with my manager yesterday. Was given some small things to do and knocked them out, but it turns out they weren't important and we were waiting to release them anyway. I spent some time staring at my calendar and wondering why everyone else seemed so much busier than I was. I started working on a presentation I want to give at our next team meeting, only to realize that the premise behind my talk was incredibly wrong. I ate lunch alone, because I was afraid to go sit in the kitchen and interact with people. I stared at my calendar some more, then tried to figure out if I still want to give this presentation despite the premise being wrong. At 3pm I had a meeting to go to. We talked about a tool that I don't know how to access (for all I know, I don't have access to it even though I'm apparently supposed to ... and let's not talk about how this made me almost start crying), then talked about a tool that I may or may not be supposed to have access to (but I think I do have access), and I asked a question that was probably incredibly stupid. After that meeting, I did some research about the stupid question I had asked, but the information I was seeing made no sense to me, and I really wasn't sure I understood whether what had been discussed after I asked my question was at all possible. When I finally ran out of energy to try to pretend I had things to do, I went home, where I sat on the couch doing nothing and eating junk._

Writing this out helped, but I was still feeling pretty angry about my day. At some point I put on one of my childhood favorite movies (yay Disney+) and watched that (while browsing social media and other assorted phone/computer things, which is pretty typical for me while watching movies), but it didn't help. Eventually I put my computer and phone away, and at that point I was able to focus on my movie. I just sat on the couch, focused on my movie, and after Peter Pan saved the day, I felt much better.

Sometimes all you need to get over a bad day is some time off. No, my problems aren't solved. I still need to make sure I have access to the things I need. I still need to work on finding things to do when there are no tickets for me to work on. And most of all, I need to work on telling someone when I'm feeling out of place or like I don't belong (whether that's my manager or my team lead or any one of my teammates with whom I feel comfortable discussing this). There are a lot of things I need to do to prevent more days like this from happening. 

But that doesn't help me in the moment. Long term solutions are awesome, but sometimes what you need in the moment is a way to put it behind you. Take a night to recover. Go out for dinner or drinks with a friend, cook a meal with your favorite foodie, get in a hard workout ... or maybe just put the computer and phone away and watch a favorite movie from your childhood. When you have a bad day, it's okay to take time off to recover. Finding long-term solutions can wait until you're recovered and ready to face a new day.